---
start_mile: 386.0
end_mile: 395.5
layout: post
title: "Northport"
categories: selkirk
map_pages: ["048", "049"]
---

{% include photo.html id="100710" caption="Morning on the Columbia River" %}

My pit stop in Northport was longer than expected -- I woke up early and got
into town around 11 AM. I knew I would want to wait around for Bugs, Moose,
Cookie Monster, and Morning Star. So I hung out in the library, ate food outside
a strange little grocery store (and loaded up on supplies for the four-day hike
to Republic), and sat around at a park until I caught wind of any other hikers.

I found Bambi and Brick at some point, and we bonded briefly over our shared
experience of the lightning storm on Abercrombie Mountain. They were on their
way out of town, and since I wasn't leaving until the next day, I knew I
probably wouldn't see them again.

My other four friends showed up in the evening. We all chatted outside of the
grocery store. I don't remember what all I ate, but I do remember that it was a
lot. Moose bought a pack of powdered sugar donuts, and I had at least a couple.
We exchanged stories about Abercrombie Mountain and the roadwalk.

Bugs and Moose called up some local trail angels (Jami and Josh Lord), and they
told us to come over and camp in their backyard. The four of us headed over in
the evening. Cookie Monster and Morning Star left down that afternoon, though --
they had a very important package coming to Orient, and they had to make sure to
get there the next day before the post office closed.

Jami and Josh, our trail angel hosts, had very earthy vibes. We sat in their
backyard talking with them for a while, and eventually I found out that there
was an old upright piano in their garage. I played for about half an hour as
everyone else talked outside. Even though I was incredibly out of practice, it
felt so good to play again.

We cowboy-camped underneath the stars in Jami and Josh's backyard that night.
The mosquitos were biting pretty bad, but I was able to drift off to sleep
eventually.
