---
start_mile: 299.4
end_mile: 323.0 (alternate route)
layout: post
title: "Features Creatures"
categories: selkirk
map_pages: ["038", "039", "040"]
---

When I turned on my phone to check the trail guide's notes for the day, I
noticed that the black spot had swallowed more pixels in the top-right corner of
the screen. I knew it wouldn't be long before my phone was unusable.

I ate a delicious breakfast of cold oatmeal with huckleberries, and set off
about a half hour behind my four friends. The itinerary for the day was a long
roadwalk on an alternate route, followed by a climb up to the Shedroof Divide
Trail in the Salmo-Priest Wilderness.

The road walk was fairly uneventful. I stopped for water and a snack break about
6 miles in, and spent too much time admiring a little black butterfly that was
sunning itself on the forest road.

Things got a bit confusing around the Jackson Creek Trail turn-off (0309A). The
trail was like an overgrown forest road for a while, but it eventually faded and
became difficult to follow. With my map, compass, and a lot of guesswork, I was
able to pick it up again on the north side of Jackson Creek, in a small strand
of beautiful old cedar trees.

{% include photo.html id="113004" width="60%" %}
{% include photo.html id="115108" width="60%" %}

I noticed rain clouds rolling in a bit before I turned west to start the
3500-foot climb. I resigned myself to the reality that I would be getting wet
again today, and started climbing through the forest. This was a dark, old pine
forest with almost no plants growing on the forest floor. Just trees and an
occasional patch of boletes (mushrooms which I would have loved to harvest, but
wasn't confident enough about to do so).

I think the darkness of the forest, along with the clouds looming overhead, got
me kind of depressed after a while. I remember eating lunch (Peanut Butter On
Tortilla) and feeling really lonely. It was quiet, and I was alone with my
thoughts. As I was crossing a small wooden bridge, a noise off to my right
startled me. I turned with a yelp to see Cookie Monster and Morning Star waving
at me up the creek. Morning Star excitedly pulled out his GPS to inform me that
we were now in Washington, and we celebrated our last state-line crossing
together.

I left them to their lunch, and continued up. As the trail neared the top of the
ridge, the forest changed -- the trees were smaller, and the brush became
thicker. The rain also increased from a light drizzle to a cold soak, and I got
chilly enough that I made the decision to re-layer. I stripped down in the
middle of the trail, adding leggings and a long-sleeved shirt. Just as I as
pulling on my rain jacket, another hiker came around the bend. I had never seen
them before (and I never saw them afterward), and although they were a (rare)
PNT thru-hiker, I don't remember their name. They struck me as kind of
unfriendly, or maybe they just had a lot of miles to hike. We chatted for
approximately 5 seconds, and I let them pass me.

The trail became really treacherous in the last mile or so -- It followed along
the steep slope of the mountainside, and it hadn't been maintained in some time.
It was totally eroded and overgrown, and the plants were slippery from the rain.
I slipped completely off the side of the trail twice, and had to grab hold of
the brush to keep from sliding further down the slope.

I came out of the woods to the top of the ridge (SW of 0315A) just as the clouds began to
part.

{% include photo.html id="150250" %}

The sight of the double rainbow was breathtaking. It felt so good to finally be
up on the ridge. It would be smooth sailing from here -- admire the views and
hike south. Look for water and a spot to camp.

The ridge hike was beautiful and easy, with just enough sunlight to keep me from
getting chilly. Twenty miles into the day's hike, though, I was starting to get pretty
tired. And I was totally out of water. On the descent after Round Top Mountain,
I started listening to Bj√∂rk's album *Utopia* to keep me going.

Dehydration was really starting to hit me when I made it down to the forest
road (0321A). The trail guidebook indicated that there would be water near the
Pass Creek trailhead (0322A), but there was nothing... Not even an indication
that there was ever a creek flowing there. The anxiety started to set in, and
after 15 minutes or so of walking back and forth, I resolved to walk for another
half-mile, then turn back to the forest road if I didn't find water.

About a quarter-mile past the trailhead, I found a small trickle seeping out of
a rock wall. I felt so elated, endlessly grateful for the water source. I filled
up four liters there and headed up the switchbacks, setting up camp in a small
tent-sized clearing.
