---
start_mile: 365.2
end_mile: 386.0
layout: post
title: "Sturgeon"
categories: selkirk
map_pages: ["046", "047", "048"]
---

Bambi and Brick were already gone by the time I peeked out of my tent in the
morning. I was alone in the thick fog.

On the descent, I knew I was missing some incredible views, but at least I could
admire the alpine flowers at my feet as I plunged down the rocky southern
shoulder of the mountain. The path down was well-marked by cairns, but at each
cairn, I could just barely see the next one through the fog.

The trail dipped below the treeline at about the same time as it descended
out of the clouds. Even as the brush thickened, the trail was very
well-maintained, and I had an uneventful hike down to the next forest road.

{% include photo.html id="093953" width="60%" %}

{% include photo.html id="091324" caption="A spruce grouse and her chick" %}

When I made it to the road, the clouds started to clera up and I began the real
challenge of the day. I had 23 full miles of roadwalking before I would get to
Northport. My plan was to make it at least to the convenience store (0383P),
then fill up on water and find a place to camp.

The roadwalk was absolutely grueling -- the asphalt was tough on my feet, and I
was sweating off sunscreen faster than I could put it on. There was almost no
shade on this road, and I had to choose between walking in the hot sun and
walking on the uncomfortably-sloped shoulder. Part of me hoped that some driver
would take pity on me and ask if I needed a ride, but the other part of me was
too proud to accept help and skip more trail miles.

The convenience store was like an oasis in the desert. It was a grungy little
gas station with its drink colers almost empty. Luckily, they still had plenty
of 99-cent arizona iced tea. I bought one, sat on the curb outside the store,
and downed it immediately. I went in and bought another, and chatted with the
store owner for a while. He tipped me off about some private property that I
could secretly camp on, right on the bank of the Columbia River. He said he knew
the guy who owns it, but he's never actually around.

I followed the store owner's instructions, walking about a half-mile down the
road to a small driveway on the right. There were two figures far ahead of me on
the road -- Probably Bambi and Brick, hoping to make it all the way to
Northport.

The driveway led under a beautiful old wooden railway bridge that smelled like
hot pine tar and creaked every once in a while, expanding in the hot sun.
Directly past the railway bridge was a sandy beach next to the river. This would
be a perfect spot to rest for the afternoon and evening, and I could easily
stealth-camp in the adjacent woods.

{% include photo.html id="170634" width="60%" %}

I drank my second Arizona Iced Tea and relaxed on the beach for a long time.
Some fisherpeople came up and started fishing from the beach. One of them talked
to me at length about all the sturgeon that he'd caught over his lifetime
fishing in the Columbia River. He was really hoping to catch one that evening,
but all he got was a tiny walleye.

The fisherpeople left as it started getting dark. I cooked dinner there on the
beach, and illegally set up my tent on the private property. I slept soundly on
the soft, sandy loam.
