---
layout: post
start_mile: 836.8
end_mile: 848.2
map_pages: ["094", "098"]
title: "Park Butte"
categories: cascades
---

I chatted with Moose the next morning outside of his room. He and Bugs had
decided to walk the unofficial rail-trail alternate route to Sedro-Wooley
instead of winding through endless logging roads on the PNT route. I'd probably
take a while to catch up, so I gave him a hug goodbye and told him to say
goodbye to Bugs for me.

{% include photo.html id="/assets/maps/jpgs/overview-12.jpg" fullpath="true" caption="The PNT route is shown in red, and the rail trail is in purple. Something like 55 miles on the primary route versus 22 on the rail trail." %}

I did take the rail trail a couple miles downtown to get to the road where I'd
hitch a ride. It was a wide, flat crushed-limestone path lined with sugary-sweet
blackberries. I could see the appeal, but the purist in me needed to see what
the official route was like.

It took a long time to get a hitch -- I spent about 2 hours walking along the
non-existent shoulder of that windy, fern-lined car advertisement road that I'd
come into town on with Bugs and Moose. I waited probably 15 minutes between car
passings. But I eventually got picked up by a strangely-untalkative older guy in
an old red sedan. He dropped me off at my next stop on the PNT, an old forest
road that you would never notice if you were driving past it.

I trudged up the forest road for about an hour. As I ascended, the hard-pack
gravel surface was slowly replaced by moss, ferns, and small shrubs. I passed a
number of small ancient-looking water tanks hidden in the forest that must have
at some point supplied water to the towns below.

That forest road abruptly joined a much more well-traveled one. I got passed by
a few cars before one slowed down beside me and asked if I wanted a ride up to
the trailhead. Who am I to decline such an offer? I climbed in the backseat
after shoving aside a mountain of gear. The two women in the front seats were
old college friends who were taking a camping trip together. We didn't have much
time to talk since the trailhead was only a couple of miles ahead.

We passed Marguerite and Rebecca, the PNT hikers I'd met briefly in Oroville, on
the way up the hill. They couldn't fit in the car on account of all the camping
gear, but they asked if I could save a spot for them in the Park Butte fire
tower if I got there first.

---
<br>
It was easy to see why the Park Butte trail was so well-travelled. It was a
beautiful, misty, forested climb to a sudden clearing with Mount Baker looming
ahead larger than ever. I loaded up on water at a small stream (W839) and
continued my climb at a slow pace. Before long, I caught a glimpse of the fire
tower, perched precariously on the top of a jagged hill, just before I caught
the side trail.

A thick stratus cloud layer started converging probably not more than 200 feet
above my head as I made the climb up to Park Butte. Mount Baker was gone,
replaced with a dull white-grey sheet. The trail wound through sharp
ridges covered in low brush, ascending to the rocky Park Butte summit. I was
glad to make it to the fire tower, but slightly dismayed when I saw that it was
already claimed for the night by a family of three -- a dad and his two kids.

The family was really cool, though. The dad encouraged me to hang out and we
talked for quite a while about hiking while watching Mount Baker fade in and out
of the fog. He had climbed Mount Baker the previous year, ascending in the early
morning hours (most climbers do this to avoid the hazard of melting ice in the
sunlight). He told me that if we got lucky overnight, we may be able to see the
glow of headlamps crawling up the glacier.  The kids were between 6 and 10, and
they were extremely outgoing and inquisitive.

I left the fire tower to answer a call of nature. On the way to the patch of
trees where I dug my cat-hole, I found a somewhat-flat tent site just below an
exposed knife-edge ridge and decided to set up camp there. I knew it would be
cold, but I thought the views might be worth it, and they certainly were. I ate
a dinner of mashed potatoes in front of the mountain's flamboyant evening
cloud dance.

{% include photo.html id="191756" %}

{% include photo.html id="195503" %}

{% include photo.html id="195716" %}
