---
layout: post
start_mile: 912.1
end_mile: 931.2
map_pages: ["104", "105"]
title: "The Alps"
categories: cascades
---

My morning descent down the western side of Anderson Mountain offered a couple
glimpses of Mount Baker, the volcano that had followed me for hundreds of miles.
Navigation was a little challenging, but there were some rare blazes marking the
correct path. I listened to some episodes of *My Brother, My Brother, And Me*
that I had saved on my phone in order to provide some entertainment on the
endless dirt road surrounded by endless Douglas Firs.

I was quite thirsty by the time I made it down to the road, and couldn't find a
place to fill up, so I stopped at a nearby bar to ask for water. The bar owner
chatted me up while she let me use the spigot -- she was very curious about the
PNT and what I was doing. I thanked her profusely for the water and moved on.

Another up, another down. I wandered along the main drag in Alger until I
found the mysterious gate I was looking for, described in the trail guide as
"just east of the first house that you come to after a break in the forest".
This was my trail up to the Alger Alp.

Unfortunately Alger Alp is not quite as impressive as one would hope based on
the name. After a nondescript up and down on another dirt road surrounded by
trees, in earshot of the roaring I-5, I made it to a small lake. The trail guide
primed me to expect a spigot in this area, but I found none. I had been relying
on it to fill up again, so now I was thirsty with no water in sight but the
fairly-dirty-looking pond water. I met someone sketching the pond and asked them
if they knew of any spigot around; they told me they come up here multiple times
a week and there has never been a spigot.

So I trekked on. I had a short, hot road walk to take me under I-5. Shortly
after the underpass, I saw a government building, the Samish Water District
office. Might as well try. There was no spigot to be found, so I knocked on the
locked glass door.

Someone let me in when I explained that I was looking for water, people in the
office beheld me with wide eyes and stares. The main secretary was kind enough
to fill up my disgusting beat-up SmartWater bottles from their office water
fountain, and I got out of there as fast as possible.

A series of confusing turns led me off of the paved road, onto a dirt road, and
then onto a small hiking trail. The PNT would lead me through the Chuckanut
Mountains (more like hills) and up to Oyster Dome, where I planned to camp at
Bugs's recommendation.

The trails were well-marked here and the woods were very beautiful, filled with
old trees and those large prehistoric-looking sword ferns. There was that faint,
sweet smell of rot or decay that I had noticed a week earlier while I was hiking
around [Baker Lake]({% link _posts/cascades/2019-08-20-around-the-lake.markdown %}).
The other prominent smell in the area was the thick detergent stench of day
hikers and trail runners. I passed a lot of incredibly clean-looking people and
felt slightly jealous -- my last shower had been in Concrete, and I knew I
couldn't expect one until I made it to the Happy House (a trail angel house in
the Puget Sound) in a few more days.

I greatly enjoyed my evening hike in these woods. It was a refreshing break from
wide dirt roads, but I knew I still had a lot of roadwalking ahead of me: Over
the next 100 miles, almost 80 of them would be on roads.

I camped out that night at Oyster Dome, a beautiful lookout over the bay. I
wasn't sure if it was legal to camp there, but I set up quietly in the woods
while a bunch of couples arrived two-by-two to watch the beginning of the
sunset. Once it got toward dark, I had the place to myself to watch the
fireworks.

{% include photo.html id="200435" %}
{% include photo.html id="201418" %}
{% include photo.html id="195458" %}
