---
layout: post
start_mile: 902.0
end_mile: 912.1
map_pages: ["104"]
title: "PNTA"
categories: cascades
---

I didn't sleep well for fear of being discovered camping on likely-private land.
I woke up with the first morning glow, took a leak next to a patch of bushes,
and packed up my tent as fast as possible. I cherish the feeling of anonymity
and flexibility in these situations -- waking up, packing up quietly in the span
of five minutes, and becoming just someone with a backpack eating half of a
pizza at 6 AM.

I hoped to find stove fuel at the outdoor store, but I was disappointed yet
again. I did find some sunscreen, which would come in handy since my straw hat
had disintegrated by the time I made it to Concrete a few days earlier. The
large 8oz fuel can I had bought in Oroville still had a little bit of fuel
sloshing around in it, and realistically I'd only be using it 2-3 times before I
made it west to Port Townsend -- I'd be walking through much more populated
areas for the next week or so on my way through the Puget Sound, and I
anticipated finding food occasionally.

My next stop was the PNTA office, where I'd mailed hiking poles (I was still
using a reflector pole as one of my hiking poles, which honestly held up
incredibly well since Concrete) and new socks and sock liners. I walked on the
Cascade Trail to get there. The PNTA office was like a weird little house on the
outskirts of town, and I felt strange knocking on the door. But I was welcomed
by Eric and Sterling, two of the main full-time employees. They
gave me my packages, invited me to sit and read some of their history materials
about the PNT, and insisted on taking me out to lunch and subsequently giving me
a ride back out to the trailhead.

I happily obliged, feeling incredibly grateful for the generosity of these
strangers. We went to lunch at a burger joint back in downtown Sedro, and they
spent much of the time telling me about the PNT trail crews and convincing me to
join. I distinctly remember Sterling's excitable golden retriever energy and
Eric's piercing blue eyes, and feeling extraordinarily swayed toward the idea at
the time (obvious foreshadowing).

<hr>
&nbsp;

On the way to the trailhead, my benefactors let me know of a good spot to camp
at the top of Anderson Mountain, off of a little side trail just about seven
miles up. Sterling's last warning as he let me off at the trailhead was not to
eat any blackberries by the road, because they often get sprayed with chemicals.
They dropped me off out of their little red sedan at a nondescript gravel road
and wished me good luck.

{% include photo.html id="162908" width="60%" caption="A lovely mile marker made by another hiker"%}

My hike up the road to the top of the mountain was fairly uneventful. I found
the side trail at the top that led me to a wide-open flat area with a panoramic
view, and decided to settle down there for the night.

{% include photo.html id="200615" %}
