---
layout: post
start_mile: 817.0
end_mile: 836.8
map_pages: ["093", "094"]
title: "Around the Lake"
categories: cascades
---

I packed up my tent in record time while Moose and Bugs were eating breakfast.
It was uncomfortably humid -- we were now over the Cascades and out of their
weather shadow, and I felt like I was a whole world away from the dry Okanogan
scrubland. I gave Moose his hiking pole back and told the two of them I'd catch
them down the trail. I was shooting to refill my water at the Shannon Creek car
campground.

I found the campground a couple miles down the road and monopolized a campsite
across from the water pump to eat some breakfast. Getting my water from the pump
was actually more of a nuisance than just finding a stream. I could barely use
the pump with just one of my tiny T-Rex hiker arms, and all of my water
receptacles had narrow openings. And the water was brown and cloudy, so I
had to filter it anyway.

I wasted plenty of time there -- first getting my water, and then eating a
double-serving of sugary Aldi granola from my Ross Lake package. It was a town
day, so I had no excuse not to eat through the rest of the food on my back.

After finishing my breakfast, I got back on the road and caught the Baker Lake
trailhead a few miles later. At the trailhead parking lot, a group of four
college-age day hikers saw me coming and made a beeline for the trail to make
sure they could stay in front of me. I was vaguely annoyed at this and feeling
petty, so I hiked at an obnoxiously fast pace to pass them.

I would spend the rest of my day hiking around Baker Lake until I made it to the
road that would take me into Concrete. I had no plans after that, but I hoped
that the universe would provide.

{% include photo.html id="104110" %}

I caught up to Bugs and Moose again as they were eating lunch at the Noisy Creek
campsite (C819). There were some day-hikers there who had camped there the
previous night and met Rebecca and Marguerite. We ate on the edge of a steep
drop-off above the water's edge with a clear view of Mount Baker. Moose gave me
an extra mayonnaise packet (a valuable thru-hiker commodity) for my tuna wrap
lunch. The three of us were in good spirits, excited to take a break from hiking.

After sitting with them for a while, I continued on down the trail. My pack was
light and my head was empty. The miles slipped by and I sped down the trail
along the southern half of the oblong lake. The weather transition from the east
to west side of the Cascades had brought with it a noticeable ecological
transition: Grasses and brambly bushes had been replaced by
prehistoric-looking sword ferns. The forest even smelled different -- I kept
picking up some new scent of organic decay, kind of like rotting hay.

{% include photo.html id="145455" caption="" %}

I crossed the Upper Baker Dam (a much less impressive ordeal than the Ross Lake
one) in the mid-afternoon. I had drained out the last of my phone battery
listening to Nivhek's meditative electronic album, *After Its Own Death /
Walking in a Spiral Toward the House*. The official PNT route took me
pointlessly off of the dam road through an extremely-confusing forest pathway
for about a quarter mile, and I ended up in private property coming out of
someone's driveway. A really nice house, I thought, with a view of Mount Baker
through a gap in the trees.

In any case, I made it to the road and stuck my thumb out, and it was only about
two minutes before I saw a small red Toyota flash its turn signal in my
direction. I saw Moose's head poke out of the passenger seat and couldn't help
but laugh. They had missed the confusing PNT route altogether and gotten picked
up a bit further north on the road.

As the three of us rode down the long, windy road into Concrete the driver
explained that this road was a popular track for car commercials. It wasn't hard
to see; the road wound through a forest along some beautiful rock walls. Ferns
burst from every crevice, illumininated by sunlight streaming through the trees.

---

<br>
We made it into town with a lot of the evening to spare. We got dropped off in
front of the tiny motel that Bugs and Moose were planning to stay in. I was
feeling exhausted, so I decided to go into the office just to see how expensive
their cheapest room was. The office was decorated wall-to-wall with little
trinkets, statues, thank-you notes, and Korean-language signs. The couple
running the motel was so kind that I found myself unable to refuse the $50
hiker-discounted room that they offered me.

And so, I broke my two-month streak of not paying for a place to stay. I got my
own air-conditioned motel room, which felt absolutely luxurious, and the motel
owner even came by to ask if I had any laundry! I warned her that it would smell
awful, but she wasn't phased in the slightest. I collected it in a plastic bag
and left it outside of my door for her.

I took a long shower and shaved, and then it was food time. I slipped on my rain
jacket and rain pants (my only remaining garments) and went to find Bugs and
Moose in a nearby restaurant. I felt so totally relaxed, like I was floating
instead of walking. I sat with them in the restaurant for a bit, but after
seeing the menu prices I decided to go to the supermarket next door for some
disgusting grocery store hot food.

---
<br>

My rainy zero day in Concrete was a firestorm of errands: I planned my next
resupply and bought some food, got a whole haircut from an older woman who
talked to me the whole time about her newfound interest in painting, tried to
find a replacement hiking pole, failed that and settled for a $2.99
125-centimeter flexible plastic ground post that I found in the grocery store,
ordered some gear replacements (hiking poles and socks) ahead to Sedro-Wooley,
went to the library to upload some photos and call my loved ones, and through
all of that still managed to shove some food inside of me.

Teddy and Karma showed up that evening and I hung out with them inside of their
adjacent room. We talked about trail stuff, mostly. Rebecca and Marguerite had
apparently also made it to the motel, but I didn't see them around. After
checking my bank account, I decided to stay another night in luxury.

Sometime in the evening, I was outside of the motel when an middle-aged
bike-touring guy rolled up to me and yelled, "So how bad is it?" I was so taken
aback. Here I was staying at the nicest place I'd stayed in months, and this
asshole probably expected perfect beautiful lodging every single night. I glared
at him and told him it's actually really nice, thank you very much, and turned
around and went back to my room.
