---
layout: post
start_mile: 893.1
end_mile: 902.0
map_pages: ["103", "104"]
title: "Domino's"
categories: cascades
---

There was a single 4000-foot descent between me and the road to
Sedro-Wooley, where I planned to take a half-day of rest. Large descents like
this are often quite tough -- the shock of each step rattles my brain and by the
end my legs feel wobbly and weak. However, this was a logging road, so the grade
needed to be shallow enough for large trucks to make it into the mountains. So
it was an easy descent until the very end.

I bypassed a metal vehicle gate close to where the forest road met a paved road.
Down the hill further, I saw someone walking somewhere between 6 and 10 large
dogs off-leash. As soon as they saw me, they all dashed toward me, barking and
snapping at me. I reflexively crouched and put my hands over my head while they
all surrounded me. One of them bit me on the elbow and they all surrounded me
barking for a few seconds before responding to the dog-walker calling them off.
I was so angry and hurt that I didn't even know what to say. The person didn't
even apologize. I just stormed past them.

That incident set the tone for the rest of my morning. I was in an awful mood. I
stood at the side of the road with my thumb out in the drizzle for about an
hour. There was a church across the road that let out around noon, and one of
the churchgoers ended up giving me a ride into Sedro-Wooley.

Once in town, I was lucky enough to find an outdoor outlet in a park. The sun
came out and I spread out my tent and quilt to dry off. I wasn't there long
before I saw two familiar figures in the distance coming up the rail trail.
I waved excitedly to Morning Star and Cookie Monster. We hugged and gossipped
and quickly traded stories and itineraries. It had been a few weeks since I'd
seen them in Oroville. I had tracked their footprints through much of the
Pasayten Wilderness, and they got behind me when they hitched to a town near
Ross Lake. They arrived in Concrete right after I left and took the rail trail
out.

Cookie Monster and Morning Star had already hiked the whole Puget Sound section
of the trail in June, so they were skipping it and spending some time with a
friend from their PCT hike. That friend arrived to pick them up only about 15
minutes later, and we made plans to stay in contact and rendezvous again on the
Olympic Peninsula.

---
<br>
I made a quick, uneventful resupply in the afternoon. In the evening, I sat at a
bar in town to grab a beer and attempted to send an email update to friends and
family. My last update had been in Eureka, Montana. So much had happened since
then that it felt impossible to articulate. The writer's block was
overwhemling... I think I got like four sentences in over the course of an hour.
So that email never got sent, and Update #1 was my last update.

I left the bar slightly tipsy from the single beverage, disappointed by my
inability to write anything, and ravenously hungry. A Domino's down the street
radiated warmth and light. The Pearly Gates. I ordered a small pizza with
mushrooms and banana peppers, quickly set up my tent on a nearby piece of land
that looked forgotten, and came back to the Domino's to claim my greasy prize.

Honestly? Those folks make pretty good pizza.
