---
layout: post
title: "No Name"
map_pages: ["glacier-02"]
categories: glacier
---

I woke up at dawn that morning to set off on a tiny 5-mile day. Because of the
park's permit system and the heavy CDT traffic, I had an awkwardly short day off
the CDT followed by two longer days. I would re-join the CDT by hiking over
Dawson Pass and Pitamakan Pass on the second day.

The ranger at the station the previous day warned me that Dawson Pass still had
some serious snow hazards, and she didn't have any reports of people hiking over
it that season. And I would be hiking on a bad weather day. She encouraged me to
backtrack to Two Medicine and hike up Pitamakan Pass from the southeast the next
day if the weather was looking bad. This scared me enough that I decided to buy
heavier gloves at the camp store near the ranger station.  I waited a few hours
there until the store opened, chatting with some day-hikers, and picked up some
very warm wool mittens. And some energy gels in case I started getting
hypothermia (this is the only time in my life that I have ever bought or
consumed energy gels.)

If I had known that the ranger in the camp store was the last human I'd see in
another 30 hours or so, I might have given him a hug or something.

{% include photo.html id="083325" caption="Two Medicine Lake" %}

{% include photo.html id="094114" caption="I kept wishing I had a geologist friend to tell me about all of the rocks in Glacier."%}

{% include photo.html id="104549" caption="<i>Xeromphalina campanella</i>" %}
{% include photo.html id="113845" caption='<i>Castilleja</i>, "Prairie-fire"'%}

I started slowly working my way around Two Medicine Lake and up toward No Name
Lake. I didn't want to hike too quickly and then sit in my tent for the entire
evening, but then it started snowing...

{% include photo.html id="121013" %}

And with that, I decided to book it to my campsite and snuggle up in my quilt. I
basically laid in my tent and hid from the cold for the entire evening. I was
reading Michael Parenti's *Blackshirts & Reds* on my phone, but at some point I
realized with dismay that I had accidentally left my phone battery bank at the
hostel in East Glacier. Shoot. No more ebooks. So I shut off my phone and waited
to fall asleep.

No Name Lake is bordered by this massive 2000-foot cliff face - I tried to get a
picture of it, but it was impossible to capture anything meaningful in a single
frame. I took a picture of it the next day while climbing out of the valley, but
it doesn't communicate the absolute awe I felt the first time I caught a glimpse
of it across the lake.

Throughout the night, I periodically woke up to the anxiety-inducing sound of
boulders chipping off the cliff and slamming into the rocks below.
