---
layout: post
title: "Setting out"
map_pages: ["glacier-01"]
categories: glacier
---

I woke up around 5AM in Brownie's Hostel in East Glacier. I knew I was too
excited to fall back asleep, and the sun was already coming up, so I packed my
backpack, messaged my loved ones, and set off.

My plan for the next 10 days was to take my time hiking the Continental Divide
Trail north 100 miles through Glacier to the PNT trailhead, where I would meet
Peter (a.k.a. the Hobbes to my Calvin) and begin hiking the PNT proper. The
first step was a 10-mile hike to the Two Medicine ranger station, where I would
get my permit and travel plan for the park.

The trail leading into the park from East Glacier in the Blackfeet Indian
Reservation was barely marked. I think no one really uses it except for CDT
hikers, because most people drive into the park.

{% include photo.html id="134428" caption="The first photo on my camera. I didn't realize at the time that my lens had an aberration that would blur all of my photos for the first 500 miles or so of the trip. Oh well."%}

I slowly made my way up the 2000-foot climb into the park, getting more excited
and anxious as I climbed. Everything seemed new and strange. I had never been in
mountains like this before. The rocks were different. The plants and funguses
were different. The air was so dry that the skin on my lips started peeling.

{% include photo.html id="151123" %}

At the top of the ridge, I ran into a pack of longhorn sheep. I sat down for my
first snack break to watch them for a while, just basking in the pure amazement
of being in this place. A brief snow traversal gave me my first chance to try on
my micro-spikes. I got a grand view of the valley where I would spend the next
day and a half.


{% include photo.html id="0619_154601_painted" fullname=true caption="This is the path I would take the following day from Two Medicine Campground up toward Dawson Pass." %}


When I made it down to the ranger station, a pickup truck pulled up and three
beautiful, tan, muscular CDT hikers with tiny ultralight backpacks jumped out of
the back. They asked me if I was a CDT hiker, and I squeaked, "no.... PNT, but i
haven't gotten to the trailhead yet." I suddenly felt totally inadequate and
unprepared.

I wasn't the only person trying to get a permit for thru-hiking. Colorado had a
really heavy snow year, so a lot of Northbound CDT hikers flipped up to Canada
to hike the rest of the trail southbound and wait for the snow to melt.  The
park wasn't used to that much hiker traffic, so their permit system was kind of
slammed.

Compared to many other hikers I talked to, though, I was able to get my permit
fairly quickly. The CDT hikers and I sat through a brief video on grizzly bear
and mountain lion safety, including fabulous lines such as: "If the mountain
lion is trying to eat you, fight back".

I camped that night at the Two Medicine Campground with two friendly and
far-less-intimidating CDT hikers, but they had horror stories to tell me about
getting lost in a 1-mile-long snow traversal over Pitamakan pass that day. That
didn't help the anxiety I was already feeling about snow traversals.

{% include photo.html id="141224" caption="Some sort of <i>Scleroderma</i> fungus, maybe."%}

