---
layout: post
title: "Burn"
map_pages: ["glacier-04"]
categories: glacier
---

The weather forecast for my fourth day in Glacier looked a little less dire. I
had an 11-mile day, with one pass to climb over in the morning.

<a name="steep"/> On the Appalachian Trail, Peter (Hobbes) and I used a metric
for communicating steepness: 1 Steep (or 1 kilosteep) is an elevation change of
1000 vertical feet in 1 horizontal mile. If I refer to a section of trail as
"1/2 Steep", I mean it climbs roughly 500 feet in a mile.

Anyway, one thing I loved about all the climbs in Glacier is that the trails are
maintained at a smooth, consistent grade of about 1/2 Steep. This contrasted
with my hiking experience on the east coast, which was mostly on trail with
wildly-variable grades.

The views on the climb up to Triple Divide Pass were just stunning.

{% include photo.html id="091618" %}
{% include photo.html id="091639" %}
{% include photo.html id="100416" caption="I unintentionally chased this marmot
for about half a mile."%}

I stopped for a while at the top of the pass, taking shelter from the wind
behind a lone pine tree. I sat watching a cloud, caught against the curved side
of the glacier bowl, drift around in circles before catching the wind stream
that was blowing over the pass.

There were some snow traversal challenges coming over the other side of the
pass, but nothing compared to what I had experienced on the previous day. Coming
down the mountain, there was a stark change of scenery - instead of the lush,
dark-green forests I was used to seeing, this valley was covered in
ghostly-white lodgepole pine husks.

{% include photo.html id="131833" caption="A wildfire had swept through the valley in 2006." %}

I understand that fire is like a natural part of the forest lifecycle or
whatever, but hiking through burn areas just *feels* depressing. I quickly tired
of walking through the thick undergrowth on the 6 or so miles to my campsite.

I camped at the head of Red Eagle Lake. A few other hikers got in later that
night, and we spotted a mother and baby moose across the end of the lake:

{% include photo.html id="160556" caption="" %}
