---
layout: post
title: "Red Gap"
map_pages: ["glacier-08", "glacier-09"]
categories: glacier
---

At Poia Lake, I camped next to a CDT hiker who had announced, "I snore a lot,
hope that's not too much of a problem!" as he entered the campsite. So I had a
pretty restless night and left the campground late in the morning.

I filled up water at the lake with a CDT hiker, one of the only ones I met who
was heading in the same direction as me (north). This was the first time I
experienced a true swarm of Pacific Northwest mosquitos, a barrage of electric
stings that sent my body into a kind of panic. I broke out the DEET for the
first time and shared it with the other hiker before quickly packing up and
moving on.

That CDT hiker and I leapfrogged each other all morning, and occasionally
stopped together and chatted on the way up to Red Gap Pass. At the top, we took
a long break together and watched a herd of mountain goats, initially white
specks in the distance, slowly make their way across a nearly-vertical cliff
face to cross the pass directly in front of us.

I passed that CDT hiker on the way down from the gap and never saw him again.

{% include photo.html id="112832" %}
{% include photo.html id="115424" caption='<i>Phacelia sericea</i>, "silky phacelia", the best flower I saw in Glacier. If I were a bee, I think I would absolutely psyched to pollinate this.' %}

{% include photo.html id="124731" caption="Overlooking Elizabeth Lake"%}

I camped alone at Elizabeth Lake that night. The next day, I only had about 6
miles to hike, so I sat at a waterfall and read there for most of the day before
heading to Gable Creek Campground. I spent some time talking to a ranger at the
nearby ranger station. He seemed pretty lonely, and I was too, so I think we
were both glad to have someone to talk to.

I had finally officially reached part of the PNT, but I had 6 miles to hike out
to the trailhead to meet Peter the next day. At Gable Creek Campground, I met my
first fellow PNT hikers, an older couple named Robert and Mina. It was so good
to chat with them. We took shelter from the rain under a big pine tree, and I
helped them with their bear hang.

I went to sleep that night excited to finally meet up with Peter the next day.

{% include photo.html id="0627_121816" fullname=true %}
