---
layout: post
title: "Kalispell"
map_pages: ["012"]
categories: "rockies"
start_mile: 40.6
end_mile: 47.7
---

The 7-mile hike along the lake was flat and easy. I don't really even remember
anything about it, except for that the lake was really pretty and I held this
toad:

{% include photo.html id="093206" width="60%" caption="Boreal toad" %}

{% include photo.html id="110011" caption='<i>Mycena strobilinoides</i>? "scarlet fairy helmet"' %}

We made it to the campground and waited for Songbird and Jeff in the parking
lot. They weren't too far behind us, and the four of us all packed into their
tiny 2-door car with all of our packs. I was trapped behind my backpack for the
2-hour ride, and I couldn't really hear or see anyone.

I wasn't exactly jazzed about having to go to Kalispell to get Peter a new pack.
But Peter had been questioning their decision to go on this hike over the past
couple of days, and I was hoping that a new pack would provide a little morale
boost. I <i>was</i> jazzed about the prospect of gorging myself at a buffet.

We hopped out at the REI, said goodbye to Songbird and Jeff, and Peter went in
to find a new pack. I picked up a couple odds and ends to switch out - a nylon
drawstring bag, some gear patches, a couple stakes, and a fuel canister. Peter
tried on a few packs while I used the store WiFi to find a nearby buffet. They
eventually found a that felt good, and finally said goodbye to their old
Jansport.

The only open buffet in town was this horribly exploitative new chain called
"HuHot" that is nominally based on Mongolian cuisine (? [ and yes, the founders
are white](https://huhotfranchise.com/meet-our-team/)), but it's this
all-you-can-eat place where you put together a bowl of frozen uncooked meat and
vegetables, then shove it in front of an underpaid cook who has to stir-fry it
in front of you and then yell "Hu HOT!!" when it's done. An absolutely
soul-crushing experience. I promise I will never go there again as long as I
live.

After resupplying at a grocery store, we started trying to catch a hitch back to
Polebridge. Peter was still having serious second thoughts about getting back on
the trail, so they were dragging behind and not really putting work into the
hitching effort.

Our first hitch was in a schoolbus with this angry country/punk kid and his old
dog. He took us out of the Kalispell strip-mall hell and toward a small town
that would be easier to hitch from.

{% include photo.html id="194102" %}
{% include photo.html id="194108" %}

We made it back to Polebridge in about four or five more hitches - we hopped
into a pickup bed, crammed into a van with a family of 7, and went prone in a
motorboat (on a trailer). It was dark by the time we got there, and we roamed
up the forest road for a while trying to find a spot to camp. Peter was in a
really bad mood, feeling hopeless about getting back on trail.

I stayed up for a while repairing my shoes with Shoe-Goo (possibly the most
important item in my backpack) and watching the amazingly-clear stars. When I
was younger, I always dreamed of going to Montana and looking at the stars. I'm
not sure why I dreamed about Montana specifically, I think it just seemed like
the most remote place imaginable. I still felt so happy to be there, and I
decided that I would plan to continue hiking even if Peter had to drop out.
