---
layout: post
title: "Day Two"
map_pages: ["002", "003"]
categories: rockies
start_mile: 12.7
end_mile: 25.7
---

Pretty soon after we set off the next morning, Peter's backpack busted apart
again. I sat down on the trail in despair. Peter, a perpetual optimist, didn't
seem to be bothered. After half an hour or so of Pack Wizardry, we were off
again.

We took the climb up to Stoney Indian Pass pretty steadily - this was Peter's
first climb on the trail, and I had already had about 10 days to warm up. The
trail was covered in thick bushes, and we hiked alongside streams, waterfalls,
and lakes on the way up toward the pass.

Before I started hiking, Stoney Indian Pass was one of the sections of trail
that I was most anxious about. There was a lot of chatter on the PNT Facebook
group about how it may be necessary to bring an ice axe specifically for that
pass, since it often has snowpack well into July. I did end up buying an ice axe
on ebay, but the snow melted a bit faster this year and I ended up telling Peter
not to bring it for me.

{% include photo.html id="103502" width="66%" %}
{% include photo.html id="125130" %}

At the top, we sat with Robert and Mina again, the PNT hikers I had been so
excited to meet at Gable Creek Campground. We stopped for a snack and took in
the view before continuing on down the other side of the pass.

{% include photo.html id="125205" caption="Robert playing his ukelele" %}

The snowpack on the other side of the pass was indeed very passable. I remember
run-sliding down sections of it, as one does when one is confronted with
non-treacherous snow slopes. Just about a hour later, we met our third and
fourth fellow PNT hikers, Cooper and Maddie. I think we passed them as they were
eating lunch, then leapfrogged a few times after that. Maddie was having a lot
of trouble with blisters on her feet, and she seemed to be in a lot of pain.

When we got down into the valley, the mosquitos started following us again. I
was getting kind of antsy, because I had grown accustomed to a faster
pace in my week-and-a-half or so of hiking, and the slower we went, the more the
mosquitos bit. Hiking alone was hard, but hiking with a partner brought plenty
of new challenges that I was having some trouble adjusting to.

We ate dinner with Maddie and Cooper at the campsite that night. It always feels
so good to me to meet other people who are attempting a thru-hike. There's
always an instant bond that happens over shared challenges and goals. A large
group of backpackers with a hired guide came in a bit later, but they ended up
having to dash back to the Canadian border to show their IDs, because I guess
they did something wrong when they were crossing the first time or something.

We had only one more night in the park, and then we'd be off on the "real" PNT.
I knew things would be pretty different after leaving the park, but I really wasn't
quite prepared for the changes to come.
