---
layout: post
title: "Solo"
map_pages: ["013", "014", "015"]
categories: "rockies"
start_mile: 54.9
end_mile: 73.0
---

I woke up later than I expected to that morning, and packed up my tent quickly
so no one would see me camped on what was most likely private property. I
chatted with Peter, who was still lying groggily in their hammock, and headed
down the road to the Polebridge Mercantile.

The Mercantile gives away free cinnamon buns to PNT hikers, and I was quick to
capitalize on the opportunity. I sat happily on a rocking chair on the porch for
about an hour, drinking coffee and petting the store cats.

{% include photo.html id="090827" %}

Two sporty-looking adults and a child, all with matching hats, walked up and
asked me if I was a PNT hiker.  I didn't parse them as thru-hikers; they
looked too clean and put-together. It turns out that I had run into
<a href="https://www.backpacker.com/news-and-events/buddy-backpacker-triple-crown" target="_blank">
Buddy Backpacker,</a>
the youngest person ever to complete complete a Triple Crown (thru-hiking the
AT, PCT, and CDT). And "Buddy's Mom", and "Buddy's Dad". Those are their trail
names, unfortunately.

Buddy's Dad gave me my own personal Buddy Backpacker sticker and the three of
them trotted off, leaving me a little bit dazed and bewildered. Peter came down
the road a few minutes later and I told them about Buddy Backpacker, which
activated their competitive spirit. So we left and started heading up the forest
road. This feels like it was the start of the "real" PNT: No more
perfectly-maintained national park trails, no more signage.  Just strange forest
roads and rough trails, with little real-life confirmation of the PNT's
existence.

We hiked up the road together for a fairly unventful 5 miles or so, and the
whole time Peter was wrestling with their decision to keep hiking. We sat down
to have lunch, and Peter decided right there that they were going to turn back.

This wasn't incredibly surprising to me, but it was still a huge bummer. I hiked
alone all the way through Glacier and loved it, but I had been looking forward
to being with Peter again. This was a huge change of plans, and it felt like I
was losing something. We hugged each other goodbye. I was sobbing. We turned
away from each other, hiking down the road in opposite directions.

I continued on, feeling a lot of fear and uncertainty - I didn't know if I could
do this whole thing alone, and I wasn't convinced that I would meet other people
on the trail besides Buddy Backpacker and his parents (no offense).

I was still crying ten minutes later when I came around a bend in the road and
saw a large brown lump 50-100 feet ahead of me. It saw me too - its round ears
perked up in my direction. My first grizzly sighting! It ran off the road into
the forest, gaining the high ground on me. I was stunned and terrified. I
waited a few minutes and started speed-walking down the road, singing "Please
Don't Rip My Throat Out, Mr. Bear" at the top of my lungs. Just around the next
bend, I ran into the Buddy Backpacker Trio and gave them a quick life update:
"Hobbes just left me, and then I saw a grizzly bear".

For the rest of the day, I was just trying to hike through my loneliness. I had
to stop every once in a while to cry. The road turned into a "trail", which was
really just an old decommissioned road bed, and a few miles later joined the
Whitefish Divide Trail, more of an actual trail. A storm started rolling in and
I finished the last couple miles of my hike in the rain.  I set up in the rain
at Red Meadow Lake (C74), a nice little NFS campground. I met two cyclists there
who were biking the Great Divide Mountain Bike Route; they were kind enough to
get out of their tent in the rain and help me set up.

I laid in my tent for a long time that night before sleeping. I had felt so sure
about this just the previous night, but now that Peter had actually left I was
having some doubts about my ability to do it alone. For now, my goal was just to
get to Eureka.
