---
layout: post
title: "Whitefish Divide"
map_pages: ["015", "016", "017", "018"]
categories: "rockies"
start_mile: 73.0
end_mile: 93.4
---

My feeling of uncertainty upon waking up was reflected by the foggy, drizzly
weather.  I saw that Buddy Backpacker and his entourage had made it to the camp
\- their matching sporty visor hats were hung up to dry in the campground's
[USFS pit toilet](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-aiEu5ndvqqI/WbGM5Oq3FuI/AAAAAAAACoI/rkFVH2iWJ547MZkH8UjaCpowtU-qaAD3wCLcBGAs/s1600/vault-toilet-570.jpg).

I backtracked the 0.6 miles back to the forest road and found the turn-off for
the Whitefish Divide Trail. The trail's ridiculously-steep ups and downs along a
narrow ridgeline were a lot more interesting than the monotonous forest road
walk I had just left. I took it slow and soaked in the views.

{% include photo.html id="111156" %}

I leapfrogged with the Buddy Backpacker Consortium a few times. They passed me
while I was taking a break on the ridge, and when I ran into them later they
were fighting against their phone GPS, trying to get their bearings among the
trail's constant unmarked junctions. It seemed like they were starting to get
pretty frustrated.

{% include photo.html id="140632" width="60%" %}

I was still coming down from the high of Glacier National Park's non-stop
dramatic vistas and bare cliffs, and I was feeling the weight of being alone. I
was desperate for company. I kept hoping that Buddy Backpacker, LLC would catch
up.

The trail went through a recent (2018) burn area for a few miles; the climb up
Mount Locke was an obstacle course of downed trees. I stopped to eat lunch on
the peak (0086P) exactly as the sun started peeking through the clouds. For that
hour, everything felt right. I basked in the light and spread out all of my gear
to dry. There was debris from an old lookout cabin there.

The sunlight didn't last long. By the time I cut off of the ridge, it was
already gone, and I could see dark storm clouds rolling in. There was a nice
camp spot at the Blue Sky Creek crossing (0089P), but I decided to push on
toward the next forest road, hiking through my loneliness. I followed the creek
on a slightly-downward-sloping road bed, hiking at top speed as the storm clouds
came closer.

{% include photo.html id="173852" width="60%" %}

The rain finally came when I was about a mile and a half from the road,
thoroughly drenching me and wiping away any memory I had of the sun's warmth. I
set up in the rain again and went to sleep before dark.

I woke up a little bit later to the sound of footsteps. The rain had stopped,
and the Buddy Backpacker Association had arrived. I was so glad to see other
hikers, it didn't matter that we had absolutely no connection. I poked my head
out to greet them. They seemed totally dejected at that point - I think the rain
had gotten to them too.

Even though I was still basically alone, I was happy to have some company. It
was only another day and a half of hiking before I would make it to Eureka.
