---
layout: post
title: "Mt. Henry"
start_mile: 158.1
end_mile: 173.0
map_pages: ["025","026"]
categories: purcell
---

I was happy to have a fairly uneventful day after the dehydrated mountain climb
that ended the previous day. I remember winding through these strange ridges
and valleys, constantly checking my map and compass.

{% include photo.html id="133718" caption="I finally caught a glimpse of the fire tower at the top of the mountain." %}

The climb up to Mt. Henry was fairly easy, with incredible views near the top.
On the way up, there was an ancient-looking scummy water cistern (W170). I
carefully filled up there for the rest of the climb. Once I made it to the top,
I spent a lot of time just taking in the view:

{% include photo.html id="153758" %}
{% include photo.html id="153809" caption="Unfortunately, the tower itself was boarded up." %}

The hike down in the evening was fairly uneventful, and I remember being in kind
of a bad mood for some reason. Probably just tired and lonely. But then I saw
another human, after being alone for about a day. Even better, it was a PNT
hiker - the only eastbounder I met on the whole trip. His name was Thor, I
think. He was pushing 30s regularly - when I met him, he was at mile 32 for that
day. He told me that he had just run into Cookie Monster and Morningstar, and
Bugs and Moose the previous day! I was glad to hear I was catching up to them.

I camped near Fish Lakes that night (C174). The water in the stream coming from
the beaver-dammed lake was extremely warm.... and did, in fact, taste fishy.
While I was eating dinner, I heard a low buzzing noise and noticed a tiny
hummingbird and its nest right above my head! It was a joy to watch it fly back
and forth to and from the nest.

That night, I woke up a few times to the unsettling feeling of rodents rummaging
around underneath my legs (and underneath the tent floor).
