---
layout: post
title: "The next valley over"
start_mile: 229.0
end_mile: 244.9
map_pages: ["031", "032"]
categories: purcell
---

The itinerary for this day was to get over Bussard Mountain (Yes, that is an
incredibly fucked-up and frankly indefensible way to spell "Buzzard") and into
the next valley, then catch a hitch into Bonner's Ferry.

The climb up to Bussard Mountain was a fairly average 3000-foot climb: long,
slow, and exhausting. Dirt bikers had built a bunch of new trails at the top, so
the trail guide directions were incorrect, and I hiked about 30 minutes in the
wrong direction. I reached a bare summit, then pulled out my map and compass and
realized I could see the Bussard Mountain summit about a mile and a half to the
south-southwest.

{% include photo.html id="133328" caption='Gourmet hiker lunch.'%}

After metaphorically throwing my hat on the ground and jumping and stomping on
it like that one Looney Tunes character, I made it back and started working my
way down the mountain. I took the longer alternate-route dirt roadwalk at 0242P
instead of bushwhacking through a swamp, which I think was the correct decision
even though I was tired and my feet hurt. I had my first thimbleberries along
that roadwalk.

Hitching on US 95 kind of sucked. I think it took about an hour and a half to
get a ride. I eventually came to this scenic overlook, and stood in one spot
hitching before the pull-off.

{% include photo.html id="171138" caption='The Kootenai river valley.'%}

I was picked up by three teenage boys in a pickup truck, all shirtless and
returning from a fishing excursion. They passed me by once and honked their horn
at me, then came back for me about 5 minutes later, whipping the truck around in
the middle of the highway. Beggars can't be choosers, I guess.

I had my new friends drop me off in the downtown area - it was the middle of
some sort of town fair, a grotesquely patriotic ordeal that reminded me of the
beauty pageant at the end of *Little Miss Sunshine*. I gawked at all the weirdos
before ducking into a pizza shop, where I ate an entire pizza while binging on
free WiFi. I camped out in the town's fairground that night -- the PNT Trail
Town Guide said it was kosher.
