---
layout: post
title: "Leaving Eureka"
start_mile: 132.5
end_mile: 158.1
map_pages: ["022","023","024", "025"]
categories: purcell
---

I woke up with my tendons finally feeling pain-free, excited to finally set off
for Yaak. My plan for the day was to find water and camp at the base of Webb
Mountain so that I could start the 3000-foot climb the next day with fresh legs.

I set off fairly early on the Kootenai Rail Trail after eating a breakfast of
oats and gas station donuts, saying goodbye to the town hall backyard that had
been my home for the past few days. The rail trail was a beautiful, flat, easy
stretch... until it started getting hot. I made a pit stop to change into my
short shorts in an outhouse at an NFS campground. There, I met this weird old
Eastern Oregon dude who fulfilled all of my stereotypes about Eastern Oregon
dudes. He was a cattle rancher who came out toward Eureka to camp for a few
weeks.  He spent most of our conversation complaining about "these BLM guys who
come up from California and tell us what to do with our property". He warned me
multiple times, "Don't be like those hipster BLM guys". He had this real
Sovereign Citizen vibe, and I couldn't wait to stop talking to him.

The long, hot roadwalk to the base of the Mountain was tough and fairly joyless.
I played Tyler the Creator's delightful pop album *IGOR* from my phone speaker
to keep me company. At some point I started feeling a burning sensation on my
legs, so I stopped at the "watering hole" (W148) and found a rash creeping up
both of my legs. This would end up being a common problem on road walks. I
hydrated, elevated my legs and rested for a half hour or so. I think I filled up
only about a liter of water, because I was planning to stop at Boulder Creek
(near 0151P).

{% include photo.html id="135615" caption="The bridge over Lake Koocanusa" %}

I felt so excited walking over this bridge - it meant that my long roadwalk was
almost over! But when I got to Boulder Creek, my heart sank. The creek was at
least a hundred feet below the road with a difficult rock scramble to actually
access the water. I looked at map page 16 again and saw some faint blue lines
that appeared to cross the trail on the way up Mt. Webb... and in a moment of
sheer idiocy, I decided to double down and hope that I could get some water on
the way up Mt. Webb and somehow find a flat spot to camp. I was already down to
about half a liter and feeling a little bit dehydrated. It took a little bit of
squinting to find the faint hiking trail leading up the mountain, but I found it
eventually and started heading up.

I didn't find any water on the way up Mt. Webb. Not even a depression in the
earth where a stream might have once flowed. By the time I was about 1/3 of the
way up the mountain, I knew I was going to have to climb the whole 3000-foot
thing dehydrated, or go all the way back and scramble down to Boulder Creek to
fill up. So I chose the first option. I blasted more music from my phone speaker
to get through it - Foxing's *Nearer My God*. My whole body hurt and I wanted to
cry.

When I finally made it up to the lookout tower, I met an older couple who had
driven up the other side of the mountain to stay there for the night. They had
two whole water coolers with them! I wanted to cry again, but out of relief and
happiness. So I yogi'd some ice-cold water and chatted with them for a while. I
think they thought I was weird.

I followed the Thirsty Mountain Trail (you kiddin' me?) to a flat spot near a
forest road (0159P) and collapsed in my tent after shoveling some mashed
potatoes into my body. About 20 minutes later, I woke up to what sounded like
something chewing...

{% include photo.html id="195430" %}

It was a herd of cows just wandering down the forest road by themselves. This
was the first time I had been on federal grazing land, and I was incredibly
confused about why they were just roaming around. I hadn't crossed any cattle
guards or fences. Were they lost? How do they know where to go? These questions
continue to haunt me.
