---
layout: post
title: "Yaak, MT"
start_mile: 173.0
end_mile: 188.3
map_pages: ["026","027"]
categories: purcell
---

The trail going over Bunker Hill was pretty overgrown and eroded. At times it
was a struggle to keep myself from slipping off the side of the trail. At the
top, I lost the trail entirely and had to do a fair amount of compass/map
guesswork to get back on. I was listening to Earl Sweatshirt's noisy and
disorienting new-ish album, *Some Rap Songs*.

{% include photo.html id="102943" caption='<i>Alloclavaria purpurea</i>, the "purple fairy club"'%}

I caught a hitch pretty quickly once I made it down the mountain to Yaak River
Road. Downtown Yaak consists of two bars: The explicitly-racist "Dirty Shame
Saloon" (confederate flag flying out front), and the
probably-still-racist-but-not-as-proud-of-it "Yaak River Tavern". Someone at the
bar told me that every year they have a crawdad festival, and everyone comes and
gets shitfaced and eats tons of crawdads, and it always ends in a fight.

I was surprised and excited to see Sam, Don, Morning Star, Cookie Monster,
Cooper, and Maddie there! A veritable mob of PNT hikers. They had all ended up
spending the night in Yaak, and they were visibly refreshed . I hadn't seen
Cooper and Maddie since Glacier National Park, so I updated them on Hobbes
leaving me. Sam and Don were now called Bugs and Moose, trail names that I think
had been bestowed upon them by Cookie Monster and Morning Star.

Cooper and Maddie actually ended up getting off-trail the next day. Maddie's
feet were totally wrecked, like covered in painful sores and blisters, and
neither of them were having enough fun to justify the pain. I think the story
goes that they hiked out of Yaak to their campsite, finally ready to get back on
trail, and Cooper realized that he left his tent rainfly back in Yaak. And that
was the final straw.

In any case, it was so great to hang out with some other humans there. I picked
up the box that I shipped from Eureka, took a quick $2(?) shower, and moved out.
Some guy at the mercantile named Shane gave me, Bugs, Moose, Cookie Monster, and
Morning Star a ride out to the forest road (0186P), and we all camped together
that night (0189P). I felt so happy camping with other people around after all the
solitude of the previous week and a half or so.

That evening, I was looking at the map and The Book Of Tim for the next day, and
I noticed the Northwest Peak alternate route, which is described in the
guidebook as "Not to be missed". I didn't want Tim to make me feel guilty for
missing another scenic alternate, so I decided I had to hike a long day tomorrow
to make it to the lookout cabin.
