---
layout: post
title: Gear
permalink: /gear/
tent_photos: ["/assets/pix/0818_064838.jpg", "/assets/pix/0819_071534.jpg", "/assets/pix/0819_070701.jpg"]
---


I spent between 6 months and a year seriously thinking about what gear I was
taking - researching, buying stuff, returning stuff, weighing stuff. I took a
5-day shakedown hike along the AT in Pennsylvania to test everything out. I
ended up with a gear set that mostly worked really well for me, but different
things work for different people.

[Here](https://lighterpack.com/r/28fbrg) is a breakdown of everything I carried
in my pack toward the end of the trip.

### **Backpack** - Osprey Exos 58
I took an older version of this pack on the AT, and then cashed in on the
lifetime warranty to trade my beat-up pack for a new one. I stuck with this pack
mainly for the comfort factor. It can handle heavy loads without losing a lot of
stability. The main backpack body doesn't directly touch your back; there's a
mesh suspension in-between that allows for a lot of airflow. This is one of the
biggest selling points of the pack for me -- it doesn't get swampy and itchy.

The biggest downside of this pack for me is the lack of hip pockets. They were
removed in the 2018 version. the rumor is that people would leave snacks in the
hip pockets, then rodents would chew through the pockets and people would send
their packs in for repairs/replacements, and Osprey was tired of replacing them
for that. Hip pockets are totally essential for me; I like to have my camera,
compass, chapstick, and map pages readily accessible so I can avoid taking off
my pack as much as possible. Nothing kills my momentum like having to get
something out of my pack.

So I ended up ordering a
[hip pocket from Gossamer Gear](https://web.archive.org/web/20200302030144/https://www.gossamergear.com/products/hipbelt-pocket),
and sewing/gluing it onto my pack. That worked pretty well.

My only other issue with this pack is The Squeak. Mine will randomly start
squeaking sometimes with every step, for a few hours, and then gradually get
quieter again. It doesn't happen every day. I think it tends to happen more the
drier the atmosphere is.

I see rumors on the internet that you can mitigate the squeak with graphite
powder or silicone lubricant. It's probably worth a shot.

### **Tent** - Gossamer Gear The One

{% include carousel.html height="60" unit="%" photos=page.tent_photos %}
