---
layout: post
start_mile: 1008.2
end_mile: 1040.5
map_pages: ["113", "114", "115", "121"]
title: "Promised Land"
categories: olympic
---

I set off bright and early, all charged up and ready to go. I beelined to a
Safeway at the southwest corner of town where I did a quick resupply then sat on
the curb for my usual food-repacking ritual.. It was a four-day resupply until
I'd make it to Hurricane Ridge, where hopefully I could catch a hitch into Port
Angeles for another resupply.

I picked up the PNT route again at a marina across the street from the safeway.
The route would take me on a bike path that eventually joined up with highway
20, where I absolutely intended to hitch 9 miles until the next non-death-trap
road (someone on the Guthook app called this "the most skippable 10 miles of the
PNT").

The bike path walk was uneventful... except for the stink. The person on the
ferry had warned me correctly. I actually saw it before I smelled it: A sickly
gray-pink mist hovering above the bay, unmoving. Unfortunately, the bike path
wandered directly into the Stink Zone. For about four miles I was tormented by
the nauseating byproducts of the [Kraft
Process](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kraft_process){:target="_blank_"}.  With
no exaggeration, it smelled like pure death, worse than I had ever smelled it
before. I never got used to it, but I eventually waded out of the stench cloud
as I neared the end of the bike trail.

I started hitching at Four Corners (1009P) and got picked up immediately by a
guy who told me about the motorcycle he bought for his mid-life crisis. He
dropped me off at the intersection of 20 and 101 at a horrid greasy spoon called
Fat Smitty's. Fat Smitty was a 10-foot-tall statue of a guy next to an
equally-tall statue of a hamburger and Coca-Cola bottle. It was an awful 

{% include photo.html id="/assets/maps/jpgs/mapset-101a.jpg" fullpath=true %}
