---
layout: post
start_mile: 1061.8
end_mile: 1079.9
map_pages: ["123", "124", "125"]
title: "Recon"
categories: olympic
---

As I was making it back up to the PNT proper that morning, I saw a fairly short
figure carrying hiking westbound at an alarming speed. Was there a PNT hiker
behind me who I hadn't heard of? I knew that Shepherd, Karma, and Teddy weren't
far behind. Bugs and Moose were at least a half-day ahead, having taken an
alternate route to bypass trails they'd already hiked. Cookie Monster and
Morning Star should be over a day ahead; Rebecca and Marguerite as well. The
trail community was so small that I could hardly imagine seeing a thru-hiker
that I hadn't already heard of.

But this person I saw from a distance was unmistakably a thru-hiker. The filthy
Hyperlite pack, the Altra trail runners, the cut calf muscles, ratty shirt,
short shorts.

{% include photo.html id="093032" %}

My questions were answered when I made it to the next campsite for a snack
break. I meandered along the ridgeline into the National Park boundary, to the
Home Lake campsite. A little stream flowed behind an AT-style shelter, and the
hiker I'd seen earlier was sitting there. After asking if he was a PNT hiker, I
learned that his trail name was Recon, and he'd started a few weeks after me in
Glacier National Park. I didn't need to do very much mental math to realize that
he'd been hiking a huge number of miles per day. It was nice to finally talk to
another thru-hiker -- we were both planning to stay down in the valley at Bear
Camp, so I continued on a few minutes after him, knowing that we'd see each
other again.

{% include photo.html id="121829" %}

{% include photo.html id="122947" %}

I took a long lunch break at Constance Pass, scrambling up toward one of the
peaks to get a better view. The wind was grating toward the peak, but someone
had made a wind barrier out of small rocks there, and I was grateful to have a
bit of shelter while I made myself a tuna wrap.

I had a rapid 4000-foot descent ahead of me. Just as I started curving down the
mountain, I came upon a large patch of snow with markings in it. Coming closer,
I could make it out

<p style="text-align: center;"><i>CM + MS</i></p>

and a large smiley face -- Cookie Monster and Morning Star's signature. About 20
feet below that, another message:
<p style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 0px;"><i>BUGS</i></p>
<p style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 0px;"><i>+</i></p>
<p style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 0px;"><i>MOOSE</i></p>
<br>
Seeing my friends' names in the snow gave me such a jolt of joy that I shouted
out loud. I felt so much less alone knowing they'd just been here. I left my own
mark underneath theirs, and started running straight down the hill. The trail
soon descended into some more beautiful cedar-fir forest. As much as I loved
being toward the mountaintops, It felt wonderful to be back in the comfort and
safety of the forest.

As soon as I finished the descent, it was extremely fast hiking along the flat
valley floor. I coasted to the Deception Creek campsite. Here, I found some
extremely plump huckleberries, and I also had plenty of extra time, so I took a
long break to enjoy some huckleberry "cobbler" with brown sugar Pop Tarts and
powdered milk. I sat next to the creek and watched the water pour over the
boulders.

Recon was already eating dinner by the time I made it to Bear Camp. There was a
little shelter there, and we agreed to share it -- neither of us wanted to stay
in there alone at a place with "bear" in the name. While I sat down to eat
dinner, I learned that he had taken a year off to hike long-distance trails. He
hiked the Appalachian Trail in the previous year, then flew to New Zealand to
hike the Te Araroa during the southern hemisphere's summer season, then flew
back to the US to hike the PNT.

We set up our sleeping pads on the hard wooden bunk platforms inside the
shelter, and I was asleep before the sun went down.
