---
layout: post
start_mile: 1040.5
end_mile: 1061.8
map_pages: ["122", "123"]
title: "Hard Boiled"
categories: olympic
---

The morning light washed away my terror from the night before, and I gathered up
the courage to check the pit toilet for dead bodies. There were none.  Relieved,
I packed up and started down the mountain, hiking to the sunny, relaxing tones
of Helado Negro's 2018 album *This Is How You Smile*.

{% include photo.html id="122605" caption="Never got an ID for this one." %}

The trailhead on the other side of Mount Zion (1032P) had a proper pit toilet
and full parking lot. I met two older women there who chatted me up for a while
and bestowed upon me a hard-boiled egg, a banana, and a granola bar, gifts which
I cherished and downed immediately after I said goodbye to them.

The trails I followed for the next 9 miles were frankly bizarre. Mostly they
were overgrown old jeep trails, or maybe tiny logging roads. I lost my way
plenty of times, checked my compass constantly, and wondered when I would get
to the beautiful Olympic forests that I expected.

I spent the rest of my morning and early afternoon navigating these overgrown
gravel jeep trails until I was deposited on Forest Road 2850. Here, I was
suddenly part of civilization again -- a bunch of day-hikers had parked along
the forest road to hike the Tubal Cain trail, apparently a popular destination.
Unfortunately, this coincided with my bowels alerting me that a fecal emergency
was only minutes away.

I started along the Tubal Cain trail just far enough to duck into the woods and
dig a cathole. I could see day-hikers walking along the trail, but I think I was
hidden enough in the thimbleberry bushes that they couldn't see me.

Hiking the Tubal Cain trail was a joy. Besides the day-hikers, I was greeted by
stands of old-growth fir and cedar trees as the trail slowly ascended into the
national park. Huge moss-covered boulders (I mean the type of deep, lush moss
that you can plunge your fingers into), lined the left side of the trail, while
through the trees on the right side I could see glimpses of the mountains on the
other side of the valley.

It wasn't until I crossed Silver Creek (1043P) that the landscape really started
to change. The trees became more sparse, the air grew colder, and I was working
my way into an alpine ecosystem. Clouds brushed against the bare granite peaks.

{% include photo.html id="163227" %}

I was still outside of the national park boundary, but the landscape had changed
so drastically from the second-growth forest I'd hiked through in the morning.
These high alpine trails filled me with an overwhelming kind of elation, the
type of high that I'll always be chasing by hiking long-distance trails. The
long miles of road walks make the beautiful parts even more amazing to
experience.

{% include photo.html id="172254" %}

{% include photo.html id="174521" caption="Alpine buckwheat" %}

It was getting late in the day, but I was still close enough to my target
campsite to take a long break at Marmot Pass and watch the sun play over the
rocky mountaintops.

{% include photo.html id="174622" %}

I camped a bit off the trail at Camp Mystery. It was a bit of a strange campsite
for reasons I couldn't place -- I guess it was in a little valley where darkness
seemed to come quickly, and there were downed trees all over my tent site. It
kind of felt like a forgotten place, like no one had been there for years. Maybe
I just always get a little spooked when I'm camping alone.
