---
start_mile: 454.8
end_mile: 466.4
layout: post
title: "Republic"
categories: kettle-river
map_pages: ["056", "057", "058"]
republic_photos: ["/assets/pix/0729_081358.jpg", "/assets/pix/0729_092439.jpg", "/assets/pix/0729_103751.jpg", "/assets/pix/0729_104342.jpg"]
---

I felt carefree and content as I climbed up to Copper Butte that morning.
Morning Star and Cookie Monster had left before me, and I passed them on the way
up. Unfortunately, Morning Star was having serious pain in his knee, which
forced him to slow his pace.

{% include photo.html id="075649" width="60%" %}

I took a long break at the junk pile, admiring the infinite view to the east and
waiting for C.M. and M.S. to make it up to the top. They hung out for a few
minutes. I watched them leave, and continued to sit there for another hour
or so.

The rest of the hiking day flew by -- I had only 12 miles to highway 20, where I
would hitch west into Republic. This section of the Kettle Crest Trail was
filled with wildflower meadows and scenic views to the east. I passed Cookie
Monster and Morning Star while they were trudging down a hill. Downhills were
especially hard on Morning Star's knee.

{% include carousel.html height="60" unit="%" instance="repub" photos=page.republic_photos arrowcolor="#ddd" caption="(That's a quarter next to the mushroom, for scale)" %}

I ate lunch at a boulder outcropping next to a small piped spring (C454). I
gravity-filtered some water there while I climbed up the side of the ridge to
find a spot to poop.

<hr>
<br>
It was well into the afternoon when I made it to Sherman Pass and started
hitching.  I watched a team of cyclists who were doing a supported ride across
the country climb up the hill one-by-one as I waited for a car to come through.

It took about an hour and a half to get a ride, with probably 30-40 cars passing
by in that time, and a lot of semis. I caught a ride with a woman with three
kids in the backseat. She was really friendly, and talked to me about her job as
a DNR wilderness firefighter for the entire 40-minute drive into Republic.
Unlike most people I had encountered so far, she knew a lot about the PNT and
had picked up other PNT hikers before.

The driver asked me where I was staying in town, and I said I was hoping to just
camp out somewhere. So when we pulled up into Republic, she wrote down the
address of her house and told me I could camp in her backyard, even though she
wouldn't be there. I thanked her profusely, got out of the car, and headed
straight for the post office.

Republic immediately struck me as a creepy little town. It had a very Gold Rush
vibe, and I think they were trying to lean into it, but the result made me feel
uneasy.

At the post office, I retrieved the package containing everything I had ordered
in [Metaline Falls]({% link _posts/selkirk/2019-07-21-metaline-falls.markdown %}),
plus the new camera that my mom sent. My next task was to fix my phon
screen, so I walked down Republic's main street to the library, where I watched
a YouTube repair video while I used the phone repair kit I had ordered to pry
off my old screen and install the new one. I was actually missing the
double-sided tape that I needed to keep the new screen properly in place. But it
seemed Good Enough to me.

I bought a sandwich from a little health food store in town and ate it on the
curb as the sun started setting. With my newly-functional phone screen, I looked
up directions to the address that my driver had left for me, and headed over to
Adams Street to camp in this random person's backyard.

When I got there, I realized I had no water, so I had to walk back into town to
find some. It was dark, and there was this creepy guy sitting outside of a bar
with a big German Shepherd. They both stared at me as I walked past.

I found a water spigot at a tiny park in town and filled up a few liters. As I
was screwing the caps back on, the guy with the German Shepherd came out of
nowhere. He stopped in front of me and said, "Hey, pet the dog." I panicked, and
turned the other direction and walked away from him without saying anything. He
must have run around the block the other way -- he popped out around the next
corner and said, "What are you afraid of? She doesn't bite. Pet the dog."

I was seriously freaked out at that point, and I broke into a full run (with my
backpack on). The guy still followed me, but at a slower pace. I stopped outside
of a bar where a bunch of people were hanging out outside, and the guy came up
to me with his dog, who was now bristling and growling. I yelled at him, "Why
are you following me?" He immediately turned around and walked the other
direction, and I disappeared into the night as fast as I could so that he
wouldn't find me.

I had a restless night, too anxious and hot to get enough sleep. I couldn't wait
to get out of this extremely cursed town.
