---
start_mile: 433.6
end_mile: 454.8
layout: post
title: "Scorched"
categories: kettle-river
map_pages: ["054", "055", "056"]
---

I ate a traditional breakfast of cold oats and a Lil' Debbie Cosmic Brownie, and
set off quickly in hopes of catching Cookie Monster and Morning Star. About a
half-mile past my makeshift campsite, the road ended in a big "tank trap", a
wide pile of dirt followed by a deep pit. Unfortunately, my instructions were to
hike around it and navigate through a maze of overgrown, decommissioned road
beds for the next few miles.

The old road beds were fairly passable for the first four miles or so. My pace
was slowed by blowdowns, thick alder growth, tough navigation, and a few herds
of cattle. I wound through the maze of decommissioned forest roads, checking my
map and compass at every junction.

I filled up on water at a small spring (W430) before pushing on through the last
couple miles of decommissioned roads. The last mile was the worst -- an absolute
jumble of downed trees. It became difficult to even find the road bed underneath
the piles of logs, and every step forward was a puzzle. I lost my compass
here... it probably fell out of my hip pocket while I was climbing over a log.

I was relieved when I finally made it to Deer Creek Summit (0434P). This meant
two things: A pit toilet, and the end of the long roadwalk from Northport. I
would be hiking on the Kettle Crest Trail until I made it to Republic.

However, there was a sign posted at the start of the Kettle Crest Trail saying
that the first few miles of the trail were closed because of some chemical
cleanup project... I think the danger was supposedly "flying debris". Luckily, a
forest road paralleled the trail for the first few miles, and the detour was
fairly well-marked.

I joined back up with the Kettle Crest trail at a very confusing junction with
unhelpful signage (0437P), but I saw Cookie Monster and Morning Star's
footprints leading the way. I was now in the heart of a swath of forest that had
burned in 2015, surrounded by tall brush, overgrown wildflowers, and charred
trees. I remember eating lunch against a big charred tree husk, the only spot of
shade I could find in the eerily-bright forest.  There were no leaves or pine
needles to block out the intense midday sunlight, and I hiked in brutal heat for
the next 9 miles.

{% include photo.html id="141514" %}

The heat really started to wear on me into the late afternoon, but as I started
climbing up a switchback, I saw two hikers in familiar wide-brimmed hats above
me. I had finally caught up to Cookie Monster and Morning Star! I shouted at
them from below, and they waited for me to catch up.

Morning Star and Cookie Monster looked just as hot and tired as I was. They
convinced me that I needed to buy a hat. We stopped and talked for a bit,
exchanged camping plans (we all planned to camp at the intersection with the Old
Stage Trail), then I passed ahead of them. I felt renewed and refreshed, finally
able to shake off the loneliness from the previous few days. On top of that, I
was almost out of the 2015 burn area and into the 1988 burn area, which was
filled with beautiful multicolored wildflowers and young pine trees.

My water source that evening was a spring-fed cow trough. It was impossible to
move the pipe away from the trough, so I was forced to submerge part of my water
bladder into the nasty, algae-filled cow water. The "spring" water was warm and
still tasted like moss.

I settled down at the flat saddle where I planned to camp (0449P) and waited for
Cookie Monster and Morning Star, who weren't far behind me. We chatted over our
respective dinners (boxed macaroni and cheese for me, a delicious home-cooked
dehydrated stew for them) and went to sleep.
