---
start_mile: 470.5
end_mile: 489.8 (alternate route)
layout: post
title: "Back On Track"
categories: kettle-river
map_pages: ["058", "059", "060"]
sanpoil_photos: ["/assets/pix/0801_140344.jpg", "/assets/pix/0801_170743.jpg", "/assets/pix/0801_190845.jpg", "/assets/pix/0801_190946.jpg"]
---

Jillian left the cabin about 15 minutes before me, and we discussed our route
plans for the day. Still riding the high of being alive and safe, I decided I
would try the primary-route bushwhack. I was also feeling a lot more confident
in my bushwhacking skills (looking back now I recognize that this is insane and
illogical, since I had made possibly one of the dumbest routefinding errors in
the history of the PNT just the previous day). Jillian wasn't feeling in the
mood for a long bushwhack, so she settled on the alternate route.

I said goodbye to Snow Peak Cabin for (hopefully) the last time. My morning hike
to the bushwhack drop-off point was an absolute breeze. Second time's a charm.

The primary-route bushwhack ended up being an absolute blast, especially
compared to the psychological hell I had experienced the previous day. My first
goal was to find the south shoulder of Edds Mountain, which would dip into a
ravine and back onto a small north-south ridge.

Finding the shoulder was fairly easy -- the brush wasn't too thick, and I had
high visibility. Following it was a challenge, though. The forested shoulder of
the mountain was covered in little boulder cliffs, and I had to change my route
every few minutes to work around a treacherous descent.

When I made it to the bottom of the ravine (west of the yellow caution symbol on
the first map), I had to sit for a few minutes to plan my next move. My options
were to climb directly south up a steep rock pile onto the ridge, or somehow
squeeze through an impossibly-thick patch of young pines to the west, and round
up the side of the ridge more gradually.

My legs were still tingling a bit from yesterday's nettle incident, and the
prospect of getting stabbed thousands of times with pine needles wasn't very
enticing. But I decided it wasn't a good time to risk a difficult rock scramble,
and braced for the discomfort as I squeezed into the pine regrowth.

Once I was up on the ridge, it was easy going. Previous hikers had marked the
way with cairns, and the undergrowth was very manageable. I came off the ridge
and veered a bit too far north, bumbling around for a bit on the hillside before
I pulled out my map again to get my bearings. From a high vantage point, I saw
what I was looking for: A clearing in the forest with a marshy lake, about a
quarter mile ahead and down another steep ravine. I spent a few minutes trying
to figure out the best way to climb down the pile of boulders in front of me,
then steadily worked my way down.

{% include photo.html id="113412" %}

The wetland was totally silent. I stopped for a minute to appreciate the feeling
the long wetland grasses rippling gently in the breeze. The toughest part of the
bushwhack was over... I followed the wooded eastern edge of the marsh and cut
southwest over a small hill to find Forest Road 600 (0471P)

I sat down for lunch next to a patch of huckleberry bushes, and had a lunch of
Peanut Butter And Huckleberries On A Tortilla to celebrate a successful
bushwhack. Jillian came walking up a few minutes later, and we exchaned
bushwhack stories. She had actually changed her mind and started bushwhacking on
the primary route, but then changed her mind a second time to cut over to the
alternate route once she hit the first ravine.

After a couple miles of roadwalking, the rest of the day was a beautiful hike on
the Thirteen Mile Trail through a shady huckleberry-filled forest, over dry
grassland, and into the San Poil Canyon.

{% include carousel.html height="60" unit="%" instance="sanpoil" photos=page.sanpoil_photos arrowcolor="#ddd" caption="The snake is a Western Rattlesnake. I didn't know that at at the time, but I kept my distance from it (picture is taken at full zoom)" %}

I camped at the trailhead for the Thirteen Mile Trail. A bunch of small things
put me in a bad mood that night: I was exhausted since I didn't get enough sleep
the previous night. The flimsy carabiner clip on my CNOC water bladder snapped,
so I could no longer gravity-filter water, and it had a small leak in one
corner, so squeeze-filtering was a pain. The ground all around the trailhead was
gravel hardpack, and I had a hard time setting up my tent. Also, a few hours
after I finally got to sleep, some guy in a big truck pulled up into the parking
lot and started shining a flashlight directly at my tent. I yelled to him, "Can
I help you? Are you OK?" Then he said, "Sorry", and got in his truck and drove
off, which left me feeling freaked out.
