---
start_mile: 412.0
end_mile: 433.6
layout: post
title: "Seasonal Pond"
categories: kettle-river
map_pages: ["051", "052", "053", "054"]
---

I filled up four liters of water before I left my campsite -- It would be about
15 miles of roadwalking before I had another chance to fill up on water, and in
the hot, dry weather I was burning through about a liter every 4 miles.

About 20 minutes into my walk, a man in a DNR truck pulled up next to me. He
told me he had met some other hikers, and I learned that his job was to pick up
debris left behind by logging companies. (I'm not sure why this task isn't the
responsibility of those companies).

The trail guide called this section "an unremarkable downhill gravel roadwalk",
and it was. I must have been walking on autopilot; I have almost no memory of
this section.

{% include photo.html id="081332" caption="Except for the cows." %}

The gravel road wound down out of the forest and through some farmland. It was
getting hot, and I needed a break, so I sat down under the tiniest spot of shade
by the side of the road and had lunch -- Peanut Butter On Tortilla With
Cheez-Its. A farmer rode by on a four-wheeler and asked if I was okay or if I
needed some help (I was okay, and didn't need any help).

I trudged along in the hot sun down to the low point of the day -- the bridge
over the Kettle River, at 1480 feet (417.2P). I noticed that Morning Star and
Cookie Monster's footprints were fresh in the dust again. They must have left
Orient that morning. That meant I was pretty close behind them. I hoped I would
get to camp with them that night.

The afternoon slog hit me really fast. I took a wrong turn pretty soon after the
river and lost about a mile, but I got to look at some horses. About 1400 feet
into the climb, I started feeling too drowsy to continue, so I pulled out my
ThermaRest and took another afternoon nap on the side of the road. I actually
slept really soundly this time, and I was woken up by a car flying around the
bend in the dirt road. It was probably around 5, and I decided it would be a
good idea to continue and find a spot to camp. I packed up again and continued
up the road.

I found water at a creek flowing under the road, but there was a bunch of barbed
wire in the woods that I had to scramble over to actually get to it. It was a
total pain, but I filled up about a liter and a half. The guidebook mentioned a
"seasonal pond that may offer water and a good place to trail camp" about five
and a half miles ahead.

Another 1500 feet of climbing (and all of my water) later, I made it to the
seasonal pond, but I was devastated to find that it was just a mud patch. There
was no water to be found. A bit of panic set in -- It was late evening, and I
had no water and no place to camp. I saw some promising blue lines on the map
ahead. There was nothing I could do but keep walking, so I did.

It was almost dark when I rounded the first concave bend in the hillside and
heard a trickle under the road. The sound of relief. I set down all of my things
and climbed down to take water from a small culvert pipe under the road. It was
actually pretty tough to get down to the pipe, because it was covered in bushes
and there wasn't good footing. I set up my tent on a dirt patch by the side of
the road and went to sleep.

I woke up in the middle of that night because I thought I heard footsteps. I was
sure I heard someone running down the road. I yelled, "Hello?" into the night,
to no response. Only the sound of the wind blowing through the trees.
