---
start_mile: 470.5
end_mile: 470.5
layout: post
title: "The Lost Day"
categories: kettle-river
map_pages: ["058", "059"]
---

I was already out hiking at 7:00, filled with nervous excitement. I had a 3-mile
bushwhack ahead of me today, and I wanted to get to it as quickly as I could.

{% include photo.html id="072003" width="65%" caption="One of my favorite photos
from the trip. I remember the sweet scent of lupine colonies, and the warmth of
morning light filtered through pine needles." %}

The Kettle Crest Trail was beautiful and alternated between light forest and
open wildflower-covered hillsides. I hiked around the side of Bald Mountain,
looking for the Edds Mountain Trail to my right. Before long, I started
descending pretty steeply, and felt that something must be wrong. I hiked about
a mile out of the way before I finally turned around and double-checked my map.

I backtracked to where I thought the Edds Mountain Trail should haved turned
off, but still found nothing. I rounded the entire east side of Bald Mountain,
found nothing, then turned back around for another pass, hiking at an extremely
slow pace to look for the turn-off.

From this direction, the trail was incredibly faint, but visible -- a narrow
path in the grass leading up and around the shoulder of Bald Mountain. I had
lost a full hour of morning hiking. I hadn't even started bushwhacking yet, and
I was already frustrated.  Because of this small mistake, I decided that I
didn't want to take the 3-mile primary route bushwhack, and I would rather take
the alternate route, which involved two shorter bushwhacks and a longer
roadwalk.

Here's the trail guide's alternate route description that I was following (I had
copied the necessary notes beforehand, since my phone was dead):

<blockquote>
We begin our bushwhack looking for the easiest and safest route down the
southern facing slope. Going down we try to stick close to the edge of the
regrowth pines on the east. Our next waypoint is crossing an old mining road
designated Forest Road 630.<br>
</blockquote>

After hiking on the Edds Mountain Trail for a while, I found a place with a
pretty clear boot path down the hill. So I stuffed my sleeping pad into my pack,
tied down anything that might catch on some vegetation, and dropped off of the
ridge into the thick pine regrowth.

It was slow going. I started growing numb to the feeling of pine needles
scraping against my skin. Every once in a while, I could catch a little break by
following deer trails through the brush. I knew it was mostly a psychological
challenge at this point, and if I kept heading south I would eventually hit one
of the old forest roads.

After about 45 minutes of this, I started getting a bit nervous. I knew I was
hiking at a slow pace, but I should have found a forest road by now. I
double-checked my maps, and repeated to myself: If I keep heading south, I will
eventually hit one of the forest roads. I found a trickle of water running south
down the hillside, and resolved to follow it until I found the road. Since I had
lost my compass two days previously, I was navigating using the sun and my
intuition.

The trickle of water turned into a tiny stream, which turned into a larger
stream. At this point I was alternating between wading in the water and pushing
through the brush on the banks. The bushwhack was getting really hard. There
were blowdowns everywhere, and I felt like I was doing more climbing and
stumbling than walking. I found a large clearing that I could walk through,
hopefully saving some time and headache. I gladly started tromping through it,
but about 30 seconds in, I felt an almost-electric combination of stinging and
itching. Nettles. It was an entire meadow of stinging nettles. The reaction was
somewhat delayed, so I was already well into the clearing when I noticed it. I
angrily tried to ignore the pain and get back to the "safety" of the stream.

At this point, I was starting to lose it. I couldn't understand how this was
happening -- I had been bushwhacking for hour and a half, or maybe two hours?
I'd found nothing. No trace of a road. I was totally lost. I sat down on a
fallen log and started to cry.

I pulled myself together after a while and made a plan: I would try to find my
way back up to the trail. If I had to camp down here, I would be OK: I had water
and food. However, if I was still lost by tomorrow afternoon, I would hit the
SOS button on my [SPOT device](/gear#SPOT).

With an emergency plan in place, I felt like I could make this work. I ate a couple of
discount-store Lara bars and started working my way back upstream. Every step
felt exhausting. I was tired of scrambling over fallen trees, slipping on rocks,
getting stung by nettles. But the terror of being lost kept me hiking at a fast
pace. My heart was pounding to keep up.

I started climbing more steeply, which was a good sign. I came to a large
clearing with a rock outcropping and a good view of the surrounding
mountains, ate another Luna bar, and pulled out my topo maps. I was in a sort of
half-bowl with a distinctive bump to the east (or so I assumed; the sun was
higher in the sky now and it was difficult to get reliable bearings). I did a
double-take, and everything clicked into place.

{% include photo.html id="mapset-058-snafu" fullname=true %}

I had started bushwhacking too early. I was following text directions for the
alternate-route bushwhack (black dotted line), but I had started at the drop-off
point for the primary-route bushwhack (red dotted line). My actual path (blue
line) had taken me deep into the wrong valley, where I had no hope of ever
finding a forest road.

The rush of understanding gave me all the energy I needed. I scrambled the last
1000 feet back to the trail, now unfazed by the constant scraping of thorns and
pine needles. In one patch of dirt, I saw familiar footprints -- my own, from
hours before! I was able to follow my original path for the last quarter-mile or
so, until I suddenly found the trail beneath my feet. I shouted with joy, elated
by the feeling of safety. It didn't even matter to me that I had lost an entire
day; I knew that I would be safe, and that was enough.

On my way back to the cabin, I saw three hikers coming toward me. They asked me
if I was an eastbound (hiker), and I told them, no, I'm a westbound who had a
really bad day.

Those hikers were Karma, Shepherd, and Teddy, who I would run into again in
Oroville, and far later in the Cascades.

It was a beautiful evening. I stopped to eat huckleberries on my way back to the
cabin, and took time to enjoy the ease of hiking on a real trail. I filled up
water again at the cow trough and retreated into the cabin for the night,
stretching out on a cot to eat my macaroni and cheese dinner. Right before
nightfall, I heard a knock at the cabin door. I sat straight up, and yelled,
"Come in??"

The door creaked open, and a tall, muscular silhouette asked, "Hi, I'm a PNT
hiker. could I share the cabin for the night?"

The hiker introduced herself as Jillian. We caught up with each other like
long-lost friends, talking for an hour or two about our before we decided to
turn in. My legs were still burning and tingling from the nettles, and Jillian
gave me the last of her Tiger Balm to help.

The night was long, and the burning came in waves. I woke up every couple of
hours and waited for the pain to subside before I could fall asleep again.
