---
start_mile: 493.0
end_mile: 503.4
layout: post
title: "Funeral"
categories: kettle-river
map_pages: ["060", "061"]
---

I had my alarm set to wake me up early for the 40-mile hitch back to the trail.
I was eager to start hiking again -- the [gravity well](/assets/maps/jpgs/overview-07.jpg) around Republic had sucked me in. This day
would be my opportnity to get back on track and catch up to my trail friends.

The first hitch I got out of Tonasket was with an older woman, probably 80 or
so. Somehow we got onto politics, and she talked to me about her support for
Elizabeth Warren, and how difficult it was to exist in a very right-wing area.

After a while, she revealed to me that she was heading into Republic for a
funeral for one of her close friends. This 80-year-old woman, driving
through the middle of nowhere in Eastern Washington alone on the way to her
funeral, decided to pick up a rando hitchhiker. Incredible.

That wasn't the weirdest hitch I got that day. After a quick grocery stop in
Republic (during which I ran into two more PNT hikers, Justin and Kate from
Madison, WI), I got back on route 21 and started trying to hitch back to the
trail. The road was deserted, with about one car passing every 10 minutes, so I
found a spot of shade to rest in while I waited.

After about 2 hours of hitching, a little white Toyota stopped in the pullout at
the side of the road about 20 feet from me, kicking up a cloud of dust. My heart
leapt, and I walked over to the car. I tried the passenger side handle, and it
was locked. The old woman in the driver's seat hit the lock for me, and I got
in. I thanked her for picking me up, and let her know that I wanted to
be dropped off at Ten Mile Campground, appropriately located about 10 miles
south.

We sat in silence for the first part of the ride, and after a few minutes, the
woman finally confessed: "I didn't mean to pick you up." I felt horrified. She
hadn't seen me standing in the shadow, and only pulled over to check her map.
She didn't see me until I was directly outside her passenger side window, and
only unlocked her door for me out of fear. I apologized to her profusely for
scaring her like that, and in the end we had a laugh about it.

There was no better feeling than getting dropped off on the trail after a long
resupply. No more complicated logistics, no worrying about hitches. I had
everything I needed to take care of myself: Shelter, a water filter, and a heavy
ziploc bag full of gorp. I took a map page out and tucked it into my hip belt
pocket in preparation for the maze of gravel roads ahead.

The canyon grasses glowed orange in the late afternoon light. I followed the
serene Ten Mile Trail, climbing for about a mile until I reached a dusty dirt
road. I navigated the labyrinth of forest roads for 8 or 9 more miles, awkwardly
leapfrogging with a couple of hunters in a Jeep that seemed to be in a
married-couple-type conflict. I found a flat spot near a spring to settle down
soon after forking off onto the less-travelled Forest Road 500, which had a nice
view of the valley to the south.

My campsite was covered in cow pies, which made me feel pretty anxious about
drinking from the stream. I bushwhacked far upstream to get away from where cows
had clearly trampled all of the vegetation, using my pot to scoop the trickle of
water into my leaking filter bag.

I set up my tent on the lumpy, cow-trampled ground, and when to sleep hoping
that I'd catch up to Bugs and Moose the next day.
