---
layout: post
start_mile: 689.0
end_mile: 713.2
map_pages: ["081", "082"]
title: "Culture Shock"
categories: pasayten
pct_photos: ["/assets/pix/0814_124345.jpg", "/assets/pix/0814_130928.jpg", "/assets/pix/0814_131256.jpg", "/assets/pix/0814_135155.jpg", "/assets/pix/0814_140006.jpg", "/assets/pix/0814_140233.jpg", "/assets/pix/0814_142744.jpg", "/assets/pix/0814_150836.jpg", "/assets/pix/0814_191145.jpg"]
---

The forest looked a lot friendlier in the morning light. The sunlight streamed
down between the trees and occasionally lit up the forest floor, making
everything feel more expansive and alive. I filtered some water from the creek,
then packed up my tent and tried to erase the imprint that I had left on the
trailside vegetation.

I passed the ruins of an old cabin alongside the trail. It was now barely
visible as a square-shaped indent sunken into the ground and covered in thick
pillowy moss. There was a perfect little clearing behind it for me to pop a
squat for my morning poop.

{% include photo.html id="083017" width="60%" %}

The trail was still covered in downed trees, even more so than the section I'd
hiked the previous evening. My progress was slow and frustrating. Morning Star
and Cookie Monster later told me that they counted over 100 downed trees across
this section of the trail. My body was covered in scrapes and dirt from sliding
underneath tree trunks and pushing through pine needles. The forest abruptly
ended in a clearing covered in thick chest-high bushes (0683P). I changed into
my shorts for the climb up toward Frosty Pass. The bushes were overgrown across
the trail and made the climb extra annoying.

{% include photo.html id="101625" %}
{% include photo.html id="101633" %}

The bushes thinned out toward the top of the climb and the trail suddenly became
much more photogenic. I was only a mile away from the PNT/PCT junction, and I'd
heard rumors about how well-maintained the PCT tread was. I hiked down the other
side of the pass so quickly that when I made it to the PCT, I accidentally
turned the wrong way (north). It was only half a mile later when I saw a sign
pointing toward the Canadian border that I realized my mistake.

My first encounters with PCT hikers were pretty surreal. The last humans I'd
seen had been Bugs and Moose at a trail junction two days ago. I was desperate
for human contact. On the PNT, two people running into each other will always
stop to have a conversation. Not so on the PCT. Most hikers barely managed a
grunt while passing by. It was hard not to feel a little bit offended, but I
passed so many PCT hikers in the first couple of hours that I could see why they
were tired of talking to people.

The scenery here was absolutely stunning. The trail was wide and
perfectly-maintained with hardly a pebble in the way. I stopped for lunch at the
top of the "Devil's Stairway" (SW of 0689P), a section of tight,
perfectly-groomed switchbacks leading up the shoulder of a mountain. I got into
a conversation with a section hiker (if I couldn't talk to a PCT hiker, I had to
settle for a daywalker) and we talked about the PNT for a while. They told me
they'd camped with Cookie Monster and Morning star the previous night at Woody
Pass (C695P), just a few miles down the trail! This gave me some hope that I'd
catch up with them in a few days.

{% include carousel.html height="480" unit="px" instance="pct" photos=page.pct_photos arrowcolor="#ddd" caption='Photos along the PCT, featuring <i>Scotogramma trifolii</i>, a.k.a. "Clover cutworm", and <i>Sedum lanceolatum</i>, a.k.a. "Spearleaf stonecrop"' %}

One of the big challenges I can remember from this day is finding a place to
poop. When my body adjusts to a 4000-5000 calorie diet, the time delta between
the realization that I have to poop and the realization that I'm going to have
an emergency is often as low as 5-10 minutes. Realization #1 came to me on a
wide-open stretch of trail above treeline (around the third-to-last picture in
the slideshow above). Realization #2 came to me still before I crossed over the
apex of the mountain. There were PCT hikers everywhere and no secluded spots to
be found. I ended up taking the world's quickest hiker poop behind a tiny group
of scraggly subalpine fir trees. I buried it with my trowel and finished cleaning
up about 30 seconds before a group of hikers came around the bend.

Turning from the PCT back onto the PNT was a fun reality check. The trails were
overgrown, confusing, and covered in blowdowns. One stream crossing (C700) was
so unclear that I ended up bushwhacking uphill until I could find the trail
again. A massive old cedar had fallen down over a switchback with thick forest
on either side, and the best option was to tiptoe across the log, suspended 6
feet in the air over the switchback, and climb off on the other side.

Of course, these things are what make the PNT special. It wouldn't be as Fun if
the trail was smooth and perfectly-graded like the PCT the whole way.

My campsite was a beautiful little clearing on the mountainside, protected from
the wind by a wall of trees. I made it there with just enough daylight left to
go on an unhinged huckleberry-picking spree. I cooked them over my stove with
some oats, powdered milk, and a mashed-up cinnamon pop tart. I fell asleep
satisfied and happy with a belly full of trail cobbler.

{% include photo.html id="191145" %}
