---
layout: post
start_mile: 621.4
end_mile: 644.7
map_pages: ["074", "075", "076"]
title: "Tungsten Mine"
categories: pasayten
---

The previous night's storm left puddles around our campsite. Bugs and Moose had
to get up and move their tent at some point. I happened to be set up on a small
mound, which saved me from getting too wet.

We all used the USFS pit toilet in succession. I hung back to squeeze-filter
some spring water. The spring was cool and clear, the freshest mountain water
I'd had in weeks. It was sprinkling a bit, but once I got moving the moisture
evaporated off of my rain jacket quickly enough to maintain a dampness
equilibrium.

The Chopaka Mountain Trail took me through a nondescript cattle-infested fir
forest south of Disappointment Peak (?) to find the Goodenough trail (??). I was looking
forward to reaching the wilderness boundary, where hopefully I'd make it out
of cow territory.

I caught up to the others at the base of Goodenough Peak. The guidebook
directions and signage were incredibly unclear, and it took a bit of discernment
to find the right direction. It became obvious when we started climbing. The
trail immediately opened up into grassland with a grand view of our
gorgeous surroundings.

{% include photo.html id="103737" %}

I climbed up and up the side of the mountain on crisscrossing maze of cow paths,
leapfrogging the other hikers multiple times, getting lost, and eventually
bushwhacking up the side of the mountain to converge with Bugs and Moose near
the top. Our collective mood climbed noticeably higher as we gained altitude.
It really felt like we were back in the mountains now.

After I passed a cattle gate at the Pasayten Wilderness boundary, the flora
changed immediately -- Where previously the undergrowth had been thoroughly
cattle-munched, the forest floor was now covered in wildflowers. This section of
the forest had seen a light burn in 2015, so the wildflower growth was
especially impressive. I ran down the side of Goodenough peak giddily and
light-jogged for about half a mile until I lost my footing on a downhill. I went
face-first and slammed my knee on a rock, removing a patch of skin and tearing a
hole in my leggings. Dumb. I removed my backpack so that I could roll around in
pain for a while, then decided I would clean out the wound and patch it up at
the next water source.

I reached a small spring (W623) that wound down through the ghostly burned
forest into a marsh. I decided I would take a lunch break there. I filtered
some spring water, flushed out my cut with a syringe, then bandaged up with some
Neosporin and a transparent bandage. Justin, Kate, Bugs, and Moose caught up
after a while, and I was grateful for their sympathy.

My knee lucklily felt fine to walk on, so there was no reason to change my plan.
I was hoping to sleep in an old mining cabin mentioned in the trail guidebook,
and I still had 15 miles to go.

{% include photo.html id="135115" caption="Moose and Bugs having a snack break" %}

I eventually found my way to the Boundary Trail, which I'd be hiking for the
next 100 miles or so. It wound its way gently through gorgeous alpine meadows
dotted with wildflowers and splotched with lichen-encrusted boulders. The trail
barely changed elevation, simply following the contour line. The meadows
afforded beautiful views to the south. Crystal-clear mountain springs cut
through the grass, draining into little boggy bowls. This felt like the
"dessert" of long-distance hiking after weeks of grueling roadwalks, warm
cow-shit water, and dusty lowlands.

{% include photo.html id="150521" caption="View of Horseshoe Mountain" %}
{% include photo.html id="151710" width="60%" caption="Teapot Dome" %}
{% include photo.html id="162856" width="60%" %}

The rest of the day's hike was physically difficult but mentally easy. My feet
felt tired, but I found myself constantly distracted from the pain by the beauty
of my surroundings.

{% include photo.html id="184239" caption="Tungsten Mine cabin" %}

I made it to the Tungsten Mine camp around 6:45. It was getting pretty chilly -
Typically you lose about 3.5 degrees Fahrenheit for every 1000 feet of
elevation, so at a baseline it was about 21 degrees colder than in Oroville. I
inspected the larger lower cabin first. It was adorned by bits of rusty old
mining gear. The floor inside was totally covered in mouse droppings and slanted
at an alarming angle.

The upper cabin looked like it had been maintained more recently. Inside, there
were 4 or 5 bed platforms surrounding a large woodstove.  The walls were covered
in decades of graffiti. Someone had left a printout in the cabin detailing the
history of the Tungsten Mine from the firsthand perspective of a person who had
worked there in the 1910s (I think it was from the book *Discovering
Washington's Historic Mines Vol. 3*). I sat for a while reading in silent awe of
the engineering feats and working/living conditions that it described. All of
the miners stayed together in the lower cabin, and in the winter they built a
massive snow road all the way from Nighthawk so that all of the machinery could
be pulled up to elevation.

Bugs and Moose showed up not long after. We ate dinner and staked out our
sleeping platforms, hung our packs out of rodent reach, and drifted off to
sleep. I was rudely awoken a few times throughout the night by mice running
across my legs.
